archinstall can be run with a JSON configuration file. There are 2 different configuration files to consider, the user_configuration.json contains all general installation configuration, whereas the user_credentials.json contains the sensitive user configuration such as user password, root password, and encryption password.

An example of the user configuration file can be found here configuration file and an example of the credentials configuration here credentials file.

HINT: The configuration files can be auto-generated by starting archinstall, configuring all desired menu points and then going to Save configuration.

To load the configuration file into archinstall run the following command

archinstall --config <path to user config file or URL> --creds <path to user credentials config file or URL>

Credentials configuration file encryption

By default, all user account credentials are hashed with yescrypt and only the hash is stored in the saved user_credentials.json file. This is not possible for disk encryption password which needs to be stored in plaintext to be able to apply it.

However, when selecting to save configuration files, archinstall will prompt for the option to encrypt the user_credentials.json file content. A prompt will require to enter a encryption password to encrypt the file. When providing an encrypted user_configuration.json as a argument with --creds <user_credentials.json> there are multiple ways to provide the decryption key:

    Provide the decryption key via the command line argument --creds-decryption-key <password>
    Store the encryption key in the environment variable ARCHINSTALL_CREDS_DECRYPTION_KEY which will be read automatically
    If none of the above is provided a prompt will be shown to enter the decryption key manually
